During Week 5 of pregnancy,
or 3 weeks after conception,
the dividing cells of the embryo
form a disk,
which folds into 3 layers.
These layers are the beginnings of
the organization of cells
that will develop into all of the
organs and tissues of the human body.
A groove forms down the center of the disk,
which now has a top and bottom,
front and back, and left and right side.
This neural groove deepens and then forms a tube,
which will develop into the brain and spinal cord.
An early circulatory system develops from
tubes on the left and right side of the groove.
The tubes merge, kink, and fuse together
to form the chambers of the heart,
which will begin to beat and pump blood.
The central nervous system is also developing
and the gastrointestinal tract begins to form.
Simultaneously, the surrounding environment is also changing
to nourish, protect, and support this development.